# MORPC Insights Support files
The repositories included in this GitHub organization contain assets to support the content displayed in the [MORPC Insights Platform](https://morpc.org/insights).

## Repository contents
In general, each repository contains data, metadata, scripts, images, and configuration information related to one of the "tilesets" on the platform.  The specific contents of the repositories are not strictly enforced, but you are likely to find the following contents:

  - README.md - Provides an overview of the contents of the repository
  - data_config.yaml - If present, this file indicates that repository is intended to serve as a "data kit".  A data kit is meant to contain a dataset, plus the minimum collection of information needed to use the dataset effectively, including metadata and documentation.  data_config.yaml provides a machine readable description of the contents of the repository which are associated with the data kit..  The requirements for a data kit are described in full in the [Data Kit Design Specification](https://github.com/morpc/morpc-insights/blob/main/doc/Design%20Specification%20-%20Insights%20Data%20Kit.docx)
  - presentation_config.yaml - If present, this file indicates that repository is intended to serve as a "presentation kit".  A presentation kit is meant to describe a means of presenting (i.e. visualizing) data and may include example visualizations.  Typically a presentation kit is prepared to accompany a data kit and describes visualization(s) appropriate for the data in the data kit.  presentation_config.yaml provides a machine readable description of the contents of the repository which are related to the presentation kit.  The requirements for a data kit are described in full in the [Presentation Kit Design Specification](https://github.com/morpc/morpc-insights/blob/main/doc/Design%20Specification%20-%20Insights%20Data%20Kit.docx)
  - [Jupyter notebooks](https://jupyter.org/) (.ipynb) - These contain a mixture of code (typically Python code) and documentation that explains what the code is doing.  If a repository contains only one notebook, it usually describes the process used to produce the data to support the Insights tileset and often includes code to produce the static visualziations which are displayed on the tiles.
  - Static data visualizations (.svg or .xlsx) - Scalable Vector Graphics (SVG) files are used as the thumbnail visualizations which are shown on the tiles.  If present, the matching charts in the Excel workbooks are used in the fact sheets which are linked in the platform.
  - Schema files (.schema.yaml) - These plain text files describe the schema for a dataset in [Frictionless Table Schema](https://specs.frictionlessdata.io/table-schema/) format.  The schema lists the names of the fields in the data, their data types, and sometimes additional information such as descriptions, contraints, example values, and more. Typically the schema file has the same name as the data file it describes, but a different file extension.
  - Resource files (.resource.yaml) - These plain text files describe a data file in [Frictionless Data Resource](https://specs.frictionlessdata.io/data-resource/) format.  The resource file provides a description of the dataset and typically identifies the file format and provides the MD5 checksum hash and file size for the data file to allow for validation.  The resource file also serves to formally link the data file with its schema.

## Limitations
This GitHub organization is managed by the MORPC Data Team, however it contains content from many contributors, including MORPC staff and third parties. The MORPC Data Team will make a good faith effort to ensure that the content contained herein is as complete and accurate as possible, and will work with contributors to minimize changes to URLs and data schemas.  We cannot, however, provide a guarantee of quality of service.  **Data may contain errors or omissions. Schemas and URLs may change without notice.  The content herein is not suitable for use in mission-critical workflows and we discourage its use for those purposes.**  If you would like to use the content in a critical workflow, please contact us at [dataandmaps@morpc.org](mailto:dataandmaps@morpc.org) to discuss possible solutions. 
